1. PURPOSE: 
Unsecured Personal Loan in the form of Xpress Credit 
group of products/ Xpress Power/ Pension Loans 
granted for any other general purpose including 
consumption, tourism, marriage, medical treatment, 
education, foreign travel, etc. except for any speculative 
activities. 
 
2. ELIGIBILITY: 
Salaried employees, pensioners of central/state 
government/armed forces, with a regular source of 
income are eligible to avail Personal Loan, subject to 
minimum score in the Risk Scoring Matrix (RSM). The 
loans are available through Branch Channel on 
submission of manual application form with required 
documents as prescribed by the Bank. Personal Loans 
on digital channels are also available on YONO and 
Internet Banking Platform to pre-approved customers. 
The digital Channel may be broad based with financial 
technology adoption by the Bank. 
 
3. RATE OF INTEREST: 
The interest rate is fixed over the tenor of the loan as 
per the agreement/ sanction terms. Kindly go to 
https://bank.sbi/portal/web/interest-rates/other-
schemes for latest of Interest offered. 
 Calculation of interest: - 
Interest on the amount of the loan will be applied at the 
prevailing rate per annum on daily reducing balance 
with monthly rests. 
 
4. INTIMATION OF CHANGE IN INTEREST RATE 
The interest rate is fixed over the tenure of the loan and 
have no impact on changes in MCLR. So, no intimation/ 
notice required to be sent to the Borrower. 
 
5. MODE OF REPAYMENT: 
Check-off facility or SI from the borrower’s salary/ 
pension a/c with our Bank, or Post Dated Cheques/ECS/ 
NACH/ACH for Repayment of EMI where Deposit 
Accounts maintained with other Banks. Additionally, 
repayments can be made through deposit of 
Cheque/cash across the Bank counters. 
 
6. MARGIN: NIL 
For Xpress Credit group of products, Xpress Power and 
Pension Loans. 
 
 
7. PROCESSING FEES: 
Product 
Processing Fee 
Xpress 
Credit 
Group Products & 
Xpress Power 
1.% of the Loan Amount + 
applicable tax 
SBI Pension Loan 
0.50% of the Loan amount + 
applicable tax (Minimum Rs. 
250) 
Jai Jawan Pension 
Loan 
Nil 
There can be concessions for Specific employers 
based on the individual agreements. 
(During promotional campaigns, Bank may extend 
concessions in Processing Fees). 
 
EMI failure Charges: - 
A penalty of Rs 500/-+Applicable tax will be charged for 
every EMI dishonors. The rate may vary from time to 
time. In the event of bouncing of S.I./cheque/ECS, legal 
action under section 138 of the Negotiable Instrument 
Act, 1881 will be initiated. 
 
8. REPAYMENT: 
The loan is to be repaid in Equated Monthly Installments 
(EMIs) over the tenure of the loan. The repayment of 
installment commences from a date specified in the 
sanction letter. The liability to the bank will be 
extinguished only when the outstanding of the loan 
becomes Nil, on payment of residual amount, if any. 
 
9. PRE-CLOSURE CHARGES: 3% for Xpress Credit group 
of products, Xpress Power and Pension Loans. In case of 
repayment out of a fresh from SBI, it is Nil. 
 
10. OTHER FEE/CHARGES: 
Particulars 
Amount (Rs) 
Collected for payment to 
empaneled Advocate for Legal 
opinion/Search Report etc. 
As per Actual 
Any Other Fee, if any 
As per Actual 
 
11. DEFAULT: 
In the event of default i.e. if the EMI amount due is not 
paid by due date, the customer will be sent reminders 
at his/her cost from time to time for payment of any 
outstanding on his loan account, by post, fax, 
telephone, email, SMS messaging and/or through third 
UNSECURED PERSONAL LOANS 
MOST IMPORTANT TERMS & CONDITIONS 
 
 
parties appointed for collection purpose to remind, 
follow-up and collect dues. Any third party so 
appointed, 
shall 
adhere 
to 
the 
Indian 
Banks 
Association’s (IBA) code of conduct on debt collection. 
 
12. SECURITY: NIL 
 
13. PENAL INTEREST: 
if the irregularity exceeds EMI or Installment amount, 
for a period of one month, then penal interest would be 
charged @2% per month (over and above the applicable 
interest rate) on the overdue amount for the period of 
default. If part installment or part EMI remains overdue, 
then penal interest should not be levied. 
 
14. TIMELINE FOR DISPOSAL OF LOAN APPLICATIONS 
 
SCHEME 
All Centers 
Personal Loan* 
2-7 days 
 
The timeline starts from the date of submission of 
complete set of documents by the applicant and the 
time taken by the applicant for submitting documents 
and/or furnishing information sought by the Bank will 
not be taken into account for the purpose of timeline 
indicated above. We shall endeavor, at all times, to 
deliver within the indicated timelines, barring in 
situations and circumstances that are beyond the 
control of the Bank. 
 
Customer Service: 
For any service related issue, customer can get in touch 
with SBI: 
• Calling Customer Help Line Numbers 
• Contact Customer Grievance Cell at our Local Head 
Offices 
• Write to Grievance Cell at our Local Head Offices 
(Details on Help line Numbers and Grievance Cell 
available on www.sbi.co.in) 
In case a customer is not satisfied with the handling of 
grievance by the Local Head Office, a communication 
may be sent (enclosing the message sent earlier to Local 
Head Office) to the - 
Customer Service Department, 
State Bank of India, State Bank Bhavan, 16th Floor 
Madam Cama Road, Mumbai 400 021 
Tel: 022-22029456, Fax: 022 22742431 
E-mail address - customercare@sbi.co.in 
Toll free number: 1800-11-2211, 1800-425-3800, 080-
26599990 
 
Disclosure: 
State Bank of India is authorized to disclose from time 
to time any information relating to the loan to any credit 
bureau (Existing or Future) approved by Government of 
India and Reserve Bank of India without any notice to 
the borrower. State Bank of India is also authorized to 
make inquiries with any Credit Bureau and get the 
applicants Credit Information Report. Terms & 
Conditions mentioned herein are subject to change 
without prior notice.