ANNEXURE – 1
MOST IMPORTANT TERMS AND CONDITIONS : SBI – Auto Loan
MOST IMPORTANT TERMS AND CONDITIONS: SBI – Auto
Loan MITC covers the following Loan Products:
1. SBI Car Loan
2. SBI Loyalty Car Loan
3. SBI NRI Car Loan
4. SBI Assured Car Loan
5. SBI Two-Wheeler Loan
6. SBI Super Bike loan
Purpose for which Car loan can be availed:
The loan will be sanctioned for the purpose purchase of new
Cars/used cars, Multi Utility Vehicles (MUVs) and Semi Utility
Vehicles (SUVs).
Loan tenure:
Maximum 84 months (Fixed Interest ).
Loan to Value Ratio (LTV):
Maximum LTV ratio is 85% of ‘on road price’ of the car
(Maximum Loan amount is 100%of ‘ex-showroom price).
of Interest:
SBI Car Loan (Fixed Interest )
Interest on the loan will be charged at the prevailing fixed rate
of interest on daily reducing balance at monthly rests. SBI may
at its discretion stipulate the periodicity of computation of
interest.
Interest s will be charged according to the CIC score of the
customers at the time of sanction of Loan.
Calculation of Interest: -
Interest on the amount of the will be applied at the prevailing
rate per annum on daily reducing balance with monthly rests.
Penal interest: -
(a)Penal interest will not be charged for loans up to ₹25,000/-.
For Loans above ₹.25000/-, if the irregularity exceeds EMI or
Installment amount, for a period of one month, then penal
interest would be charged @2% p.m. (over and above the
applicable interest rate) on the overdue amount for the period of
default.
Bounced cheque/NACH or SI dishonors: -
A penalty of ₹ 250/- + GST will be charged for every bounced
cheque/NACH or SI dishonors. The rate may vary from time to
time.
Repayment:
The repayment date to be fixed in succeeding month to coincide
with the date on which borrower’s major income flow happens.
Wherever NACH is available, the Bank may use the service for
paperless debit of installments.
Pre-Payment penalty: - NIL in new car loan
Security:
a) Borrower undertakes to get hypothecation to the Bank
marked in Registration book of the vehicle immediately after
purchase of the vehicle.
b) Bank will verify the original RC book for noting down the
charges in favor of the Bank on submission by the customer
within 120 days of disbursement of loan from Vahan.nic.in.
c) In the event of delay in submission of RC Book by the
customer at the Bank after registration / noting the
hypothecation lien of the Bank with the Registering Authority
within 120 days from the date of disbursement, the Bank shall
be entitled to charge ₹2500/- + GST per month till the time of
such registration/noting with the authority.
Inspection:
For Standard Asset accounts periodical inspections are waived after the
initial inspection. However, if there is a default of 1 monthly installment,
inspection would be required.
The inspection charges are to be recovered every time an inspection is
carried out as per the laid down instructions. The inspection fee of ₹
350/- + GST will be recovered by the inspecting branch by raising a debit
on the financing branch and credit it to its commission a/c.
Fees and charges:
a.
Processing fee:
For new car Loan on Fixed of Interest:
Loan Amount
Processing Fee
Up to ₹5 Lacs
₹750/- + GST
> ₹5 Lacs and up to ₹10 Lacs
₹1250/- + GST
Above ₹10 Lacs
₹1500/- + GST
Foreclosure Charges: -
Foreclosure charges for new car Loan under fixed rate of Interest will be
recovered @2% on closure amount (plus GST) will be levied if foreclose
within 24 months from the disbursement of loan.
3. Other Charges:
(a)All expenses like valuer’s fees, insurance premia, stamp duty,
registration charges, registration charges for CERSAI, hypothecation
verification charges on VAHAN Site, SMS and Tele-calling charges and
other incidental expenses incurred in connection with the loan are to be
borne by the borrower.
(b) Other charges under SBI Car Loan
(i) Vahan Search Charges: ₹ 50 per instance+GST
(d)Cheque /ECS swap charges Rs.400/- per instance + GST
(ii)Amortization schedule charges ₹100/- per instance+GST.
(e)
Statement of account charges, monthly free, for duplicate
₹112/- +GST
(iii) Pre-payment statement charges ₹100/- +GST
(iv)Duplicate NOC charges Rs.300/- instance+GST.
(vi) NOC for conversion from Petrol to LPG/CNG ₹400/- per instance
+GST
(f)Revalidation of NOC charges ₹400/- per instance +GST
(g)Loan re-scheduling charges ₹ 500/- per instance+GST.
4. State Bank of India retains the right to alter any charges or fees from
time to time or to introduce any new charges or fees, as it may deem
appropriate, with due intimation to customer.
5. Disbursement: The loan will be disbursed only on the following
conditions:
Loan Amount will be credited to the account of supplier/dealer by way
of RTGS/NEFT facility or through CBS system for accounts maintained
with SBI.
All necessary statutory compliances are in place.
The Bank reserves the right to collect any tax is levied by the
State/Central Government and/or other Authorities in respect of this
transaction.
6.KYC:
All loans will be sanctioned after completion of KYC verification.
7.CIBIL Disclosure:
The Borrower(s) hereby agree and give consent for disclosure by the
Bank all or any (a) information and data relating to the Borrower(s) (b)
information or data relating to any credit facility availed or/to be availed
by the Borrower(s) and default, if any, committed by the Borrower(s) in
discharge of his/their such obligation as the Bank may deem appropriate
and necessary, to disclose and furnish to Credit Information Bureau
Insurance:
a.
The vehicle purchased is to be kept comprehensively
insured for the market value or at least 10% above
the loan amount outstanding, whichever is higher,
and the Bank’s interest as a financer should be noted
in the Certificate of insurance and Insurance policy.
The borrower must ensure that renewal of insurance
is done on the due dates and ensure a copy reaches
the Bank for its record.
b.
The Borrower shall always be responsible to ensure
that the insurance policy in respect of the
hypothecated assets remain valid till all the dues of
the bank are repaid and to keep such insurance policy
renewed each year.
c.
The Bank shall not be liable for any consequences
arising from non-renewal of insurance in any year,
even if the Bank has in any previous year renewed
the insurance of the hypothecated assets by debiting
the borrower’s account for failure of the Borrower to
renew such insurance policy.
(India) Ltd. (CIBIL), and any other agency authorized in this behalf by
RBI
Disclosure:
State Bank of India is authorized to disclose from time to time any
information relating to the loan to any credit bureau (Existing or Future)
approved by Government of India and Reserve Bank of India without
any notice to the borrower. State Bank of India is also authorized to
make inquiries with the Credit Information Bureau of India (CIBIL) and
get the applicants Credit Information Report.
8.Default:
In case of default i.e. if the amount due is not paid by due date, the
customer will be sent reminders from time to time for payment of any
outstanding on his loan account, by post, fax, telephone, email, SMS
messaging and/or through third parties appointed for collection purpose
to remind, follow-up and collect dues.
9.TAT: The loan applications with complete information and required
documents will be disposed within a period of 2 days at urban Centers
and 4 days at Rural Centers.
10.Customer Service:
For any service related issue, customer can get in touch with SBI by:
Calling Customer helpline numbers
Contact Customer Grievance cell at our Local Head Offices
Write to Grievance cell at our Local Head Offices
(Details on helpline numbers and Grievance cell available on
www.sbi.co.in) In case a customer is not satisfied with the handling of
Grievance by the Local Head Office, a communication may be sent
(enclosing the message sent earlier to the Local Head Office) to the –
Deputy General manager (Customer Service), Customer Service
Dept, State Bank of India, State Bank Bhawan,4th floor, Madam
Cama Road, Mumbai-400021,
Telephone
Number.
(022)
22029456,
22029451,22740432,22740431,22740433 Fax No. (022) 22742431.
e-mail address: dgm.customer@sbi.co.in